Alex was thinking about Leila. Recently they do not meet that often, and more often than not their entire journey flashes in front of his eyes. Funny part was that initially she was like friendly competition. He pointed her out, "I will get her, who is in?" Others, friends from academia, were already following her fervently. They were ready for this friendly competition, all of them, and this is how the show started. For Alex it was just a mere stunt, a quick adventure, and a friendly competition with Trivi who just got a bit too serious about it. Later, Trivi compensated, reconciled his losses very quickly on other fronts, but watching his nose bleed over this was fun and a friendly poke in the cheek is always good. But Alex was hooked, and very quickly what started as a mere stunt among friends turned out to be long-lasting. Trivi is long dead, and he and Leila have zero future together. Dynamics changed very quickly; he finds himself crawling under her feet. Quickly, she has immense influence over people, natural energy which you just do not have enough of if you taste it once. It is just like a drug, and recently Alex is deprived of that drug. It seems possible; he is, after all, a respectable client family in his own right, powerful nobility, and Families notoriously intermingle. Leila was not interested in actual power. She liked all the royal stuff and glamour, but she presented zero interest in actual political issues beyond her hobby of influencing and intoxicating everybody in her vicinity. Alex grew hopeful; he knew that her father has hopes, but she is simply not interested. If so, marriage with a member of respectable client nobility is an ever-so-normal and totally accepted outcome, especially since they have close ties with Houstons and it could be arranged. He started to organize time for Leila in a way to further separate her from family businesses. He didn't like other members of his personal "crew" from school, but she agreed to this unfortunate trip anyway. Trivi was strangely reluctant although he swallowed his defeat long before. After disaster, everything changed. What happened down there heavily impacted Leila with good reason, but not in a good way. Alex thought that she would grow even more dependent—not at all. She was not even that supportive during actual flight immediately after draft disaster. Okay, she didn't like the guys, but those were his best friends; he expected more from her. Instead, she acted "tough" and went for her normal hunting on board the ship. After this dreadful day and rescue, she grew distant, started to be serious. She was assigned some internal Houston offices; she started making decisions. In the years that followed, they met, but mostly on Alex's initiative. She says that she wants to, but... when she resumed power, it was over for them. Where she was just a royal girl, he had chances with her, but when she entered inner circles of power, politics dictates what you ought to do. There is no future then, and Alex was furious. Especially since dynamics were so one-sided all along and always were, maybe with the exception in the very beginning where he wasn't himself that much invested.

And there is something which strikes him at the highest with Leila: this obsession with Marek. This is totally absurd and crazy, no matter how you look at it. It is very possible that Marek is the first low-born whom she ever met. Even the servants at her house are serving for generations, and they are blood-related—illegitimate, sure, but part of the family. Other than that, Leila just didn't have that much opportunity. All that she is dealing with is Families' Clients and maybe Associates—at the very least, all nobility. This is partially due to Houston internal policy: zero social advancement. Leila often times was citing her father saying, "Give them riches and offices, wait two generations and they will be in rags again. We are skipping this tedious process altogether," and indeed they are notorious for not giving a chance. Alex's family is completely different. It is being said that the universe spawns sometimes extraordinary talent, and their role is to streamline that talent, provide tools, and return it to the universe in improving house colors. But not the Houstons—they are like extremely rigid. "Why waste time on something temporary?" they say. That's the reason why Leila probably never saw a low-born before Marek, at least not from a close distance, and she was obsessed about him from the get-go. She started by saying, "Have you seen this poor low-born wretch? He is a pit of despair... such a miserable creature, like a different species..." Others say she was thinking what motivates people like him. For Alex, it was a red light because the superpower of Leila was exactly that: she knew what turns you on in a split second and she intuitively started to feed you with scraps to hook you... and yet with Marek, she was saying out loud she does not know. Why was that? Personally, he was totally neutral to Marek. In his house and academia he was constantly dealing with low-borns; they were okay, just working people. Obviously a different social circle altogether, but Alex didn't have strong opinions here. Marek was "46"—a true underdog that was special in a way, but Alex simply understood the math. Those guys' average lifespan is like 2–3 years. Most of them end up in ice scraping. Contrary to popular opinion, you could survive a full 10 years, but you need to be very careful, adhere to every procedure, and sometimes have instinct. But negligence, laziness, and most of all total lack of exposure and training finished most of them in 1 year. And a funny detail: there were people who survived a full 10 years; if a low-born managed to do that, he was set for a good retirement plan, etc. In a way, this was an opportunity, but realistically this was a death sentence, especially for those who got there as a penalty or debtors. When Marek broke into despair, for example, Alex was not surprised that much. Actually, he expected that very thing. In academia and as an experimental pilot, he knew that all too often already; this is just default for untrained personnel. Often times, even tough motherfuckers just broke. So Alex didn't even notice Marek for a long time. But his perspective changed just 1 hour later, when panic started to set in his own heart. He never experienced that in his life. He was always sitting in the front seat in academia, great records, great influential family, later a great girl at his side. He was always the one who, in the face of risk, was the one who held the torch for others. But then, when the system failed, when Leila started to collapse, Adam already dead and the system not booting, he started to feel such terror creeping in that he was just starting to lose his mind. And then Marek came along. It struck him as extraordinary. He shouldn't even be here. Back in academia and experimental flight, he knew that if somebody broke, typically he was knocked off the game for the entire day, if not more. Okay, they were able to compose themselves later, but man, it took time. Marek was standing there, his spacesuit compromised; he was already inhaling toxic fumes, staggering on his legs, and yet in Alex's mind he heard like a roar: "I am here and we will survive this. We will survive this." A sudden rush of certainty rushed over his body back then; it lasted maybe like 2 seconds, and then they booted up the system... He never told anybody about this, but he knew right away. As his father says, "Sometimes the universe just makes surprises and sends somebody extraordinary among the low-born..." He understood what he meant in that very second. Later, the Captain presented his suspicions, but you can't say Alex inspected data logs—they were corrupted, zero evidence in either direction. And the Captain is from an Associate family, basically ronin nobility. They conquered the solar system, but lost the political and economic game which followed. Now they are typically limited to telecom stations and cargo transport; passengers are for us. So there is this grievance between Associates and Client families, so you could never say what was the purpose. And what if Marek pretended dread? He knew that he couldn't directly disobey orders; he pretended fear because he was more than aware that he needs to replace the quantum module taken from some functioning life system. He made a very clever decision to save the ship in that scenario, actually out of this realm considering the "46" label. After all, he was the only one who was awarded with 2 ribbons, not one like everybody else. From that point on, Marek started to exist also in Alex's universe. He is special for sure, thought Alex.


Leila had a completely different opinion about Marek. She recently calmed down a bit, but there was a time where she was furious and she wanted to destroy the guy. Alex tried to mitigate her fear, but he quickly noticed that this is a dangerous avenue to take, especially right after the disaster. And he knew Leila was in shock with good reason, and just entering that particular mood is not weird. Later she resumed some offices, once in a while talking about Marek in her sector doing some operations. Then the strike came and Leila was truly angry, at times devastated, haunted by some ghost, because Alex deduced she had some involvement in this, although he avoided this particular topic. But this later smoothed out; Marek proved even a bit loyal... Alex had an interesting and quite unorthodox take on this entire low-born culture. First of all, he liked this spirit of resistance, maybe because of his family credo, maybe because he was overshadowed so much by Leila, but it somehow resonated. He knew from the navy that there is quite sophisticated shadow software which they were constantly using on various occasions; it was just exotic and sometimes deadly effective. Somebody is creating these pieces, so clearly there is some resistance. This was funny because he himself, being highly positioned elite nobility, yet he was looking at this with a keen eye. True interest—he was sometimes brooding over hardware with Trivi, and while in the navy they were presented with plenty of blueprints and engineering techniques, they accessed secret encrypted channels looking for obscure shadow technologies. And yet there were not plenty of them, but sometimes interesting designs caught his or Trivi's eye. It was rebellious and exciting at the time. After the Strike they sent Marek somewhere and Leila very much calmed down about him. He learned that they met even after, although she didn't tell him that, so there was no point in digging into it.

"Good for him," thought Alex, like he is out there doing something out of the scrutinizing eyes of Corporate.

Not that good for me, though. Leila was a relentless politician now; she was telling him that she wanted him, but he was the one crawling as usual where it came to this... Moreover, it started to dawn on him. Back in the day, Alex was looking at space as a heroic adventure, but those days are long gone... He understood political reality increasingly clearly: without a decent career in space, you were nobody for the rest of your political life. Even 10 years was okay if you served on a passenger or military ship or a major station in outer space... If you were in charge of a passenger ship, you could serve in position up to 25 years in space—this was a custom limit rarely breached, so after school you have like 25–30 max years to prove yourself. And passenger ships and military were the pinnacle: as a captain, you met the most influential and respectable people in the Belt and Mars on your deck; you were in the exact place where negotiations, conspiring, and major events changing the political trajectories of the solar system were being decided. You could participate as a side if your family or patronage family was involved—this was a catapult which served you your entire life later on. The depressing irony was that because of Leila, he will probably be assigned to this passenger ship deck as second-in-command very quickly. After all, Houston will probably have to get rid of him in a clean way, and Leila—hmm, will keep him as her captain boy entertainment once in a while? This is ridiculous; after all, he has his own pristine record, but against this logic, it means nothing. Okay, his family could challenge the Houstons in a few sectors if it came to that, but they are overwhelmingly more influential, and if they decide Alex needs to disappear, he will skip all the queue regardless of whether his personal record is great or not... There is no escape; politics is everywhere at the end of the day. The system is unforgiving; by the way, if you stick in telecom or cargo, there is no way you will ever surface—this keeps Associate families locked into their auxiliary positions. At least I will be having a well-deserved passenger deck, isn't that true, my beloved Leila? he thought reproachfully.

The past few months were interesting, and Alex started to suspect that this would eventually surface and backfire. Initially, he barely registered that he was searching through encrypted channels, looking for information about the Alcohol Nebula cult. They were on a winning streak; their crowdfunding campaign was a staggering success, and they secured decent resources, claiming they would start to build an interstellar starship eventually. Obviously, it would take time and happen in stages—normal risk-hedging talk. Alex knew the real cost: even a rudimentary shipyard capability of any seriousness required easily a thousandfold more money, let alone political and industrial leverage. Yet, their funding campaign was still decent, and in return for precious, "holy" cult cryptotokens with various capabilities of redemption, they were able to secure enough funding to lease some obsolete facility in an asteroid.

Alex bought a few tokens, but in secret. He knew that those things were the ultimate proof of unseriousness; for him, it was just an escape—a safety valve for the high-stakes game he first played as an experimental pilot and now on normal duty. The funny part is that they apparently bought a few industrial robots, some other junk equipment, and hired a few scientists who were already either at the end of or abruptly ending their careers in any reasonably decent scientific facility based on incompetence, negligence, and a lack of corporate alignment.

Alex knew that they were doomed from the start; if they ever managed to launch something, it would be a death sentence for the crew. He knew the real regime, how it truly works, and it is not pretty—how much has to happen to have even a remote chance of having successful trials. For Alex, watching their small, cult-driven enterprise closely was an escape. They are clearly scammers, or at the very least dangerously ignorant, but nevertheless, he watched every piece of information just to mock them in his heart. It gave him an escape from a procedure-driven reality. They were so ridiculous that Alex often wondered if they could really even be self-sufficient. "Are we feeding them secretly to keep the circus going?" he asked himself, because there was no way commoners could afford to fund all of that in spite of their spectacular successes. But yet, he looked at his own holy cryptotokens—just maybe?

Here is your new passage with corrected grammar, spelling, and spacing, strictly preserving your 1:1 structure, narrative tone, and sentence flow:

Corrected Version
While watching various feeds looking for the Alcohol Nebula cult, he noticed the slow emergence of a new thread he initially ignored, completely uninterested. But it grew stronger by the day. Month after month, he noticed that those topics were rising in view count and clicks. It was something about a hero striker, the notorious event which happened somewhere in a nearby sector, and even Leila was mentioning the strike a few times, clearly invested in the issue.

Yet Alex was unbothered; they were trying to crack some mystery, apparently about emerging feeds, video, and telemetry from one cleaning vessel. One day, he just saw a screen from the cabin and there was no mistake about it—he started diving deep. It was him, Marek. He was supposed to keep outside of this, but yet... what is this all about, and why is the situation escalating?

He started to dive deep, and then it clicked to him. On paper, Marek was loyal and didn't protest; later, he was promoted and successfully participated in the implementation of efficiency—in the official narrative, he was loyal and effective. They moved him to the Outer long time ago, but Alex knew Marek, and probably this "exile" was requested by him. That was his initial assumption because, like, he knew that the guy is clearly a "space person"—like you can just smell that in people without even asking. And as far as Alex knew, Marek never hid that he was interested in outer space.

This official record was to some extent supported by evidence. Alex went as far as to check official beacon data, and yes, Marek didn't emit a "strike message." Case over—but not quite. Those data are brutal. It is clearly visible that the transponder is on. There is evidence from another nearby ship, apparently, and Alex checked signatures and public keys: Marek was emitting a strike signal. Moreover, what happened in the cabin was telling. He was clearly not working; there were plenty of curated videos, like "Marek highlights"—there is no doubt he was on strike.

So why do those realities not converge? This is what drives the public mad. They speculate. In the office, he was the one under whom popular regulation went through—like almost never has something like that happened, like strikers won to some extent. They even relabeled it as an "efficiency disagreement," but it was clear disobedience. So there are two contrasting realities, and Corporate probably thinks that it will die naturally. Alex, having his own experiences with Marek from the Samson accident, wasn't so sure.

And there is one particular feature which probably most people missed. It happens at the very end, when he was in the vicinity of a policing ship. Alex has an eye for those things: Marek calculated and executed an engaging maneuver. There was some dirt in the area, and Marek clearly started a sequence of colliding and pushing those against the security vessel, meaning he tried to pull off a quite advanced, yet unconventional combat maneuver... Alex felt chills. How...?

The same happened on Samson-47. Like, he was paralyzed by fear one hour earlier, and yet he storms in with a module in one hand, intoxicated with fumes, and yet calm and steady... training!? Does it mean he is...? They exist?

Regardless, this will not die quickly, that's for sure, and sooner or later Leila will know what happened. "But not from me this time. I will not be that stupid to risk informing her," he thought.


She knew already that the family had been scrutinizing her about the event for some time. Now, finally, they acknowledge her, with one exception: she is not participating in anything regarding Marek or the sweeper strike. They think I am not mature enough? I learned my lesson already. Or maybe they discovered Stephan? Who knows; if so, Father has to be truly disappointed. He acted all fine until now, even after those recent spills. He seemed to be even proud of her at times, but she knew better. She screwed up because her personal grudge clouded her judgment; she promised herself this will not happen anymore.

Because of those widespread Marek "evidences," they had to hold proceedings on what it even meant to participate in the strike, because there were people who didn't strike, but abstained from duties as well, so it was fuzzy. Leila was not invited, which made her furious, and at the same time she felt relieved that this fuss is over for her. Eventually, they said that official records from beacons count, so Marek was not participating, regardless of what video records say.

Marek was for her yet another tough nut to crack. He was maybe the first low-born she was ever dealing with, so she didn't know what to expect, truly. He was indeed gray and miserable—in her first voyage it was that way, later during the audience it was that way even more. He is so miserable, yet he is somehow full of unfulfilled ambitions, an envy of bravado he never bound to have. This is completely misplaced for his social class, makes him evil and resentful, full of grudges and spite.

Okay, she can read the type in five seconds: a miserable wretch who thinks he deserves more, but he is robbed of his future. Toss a bone, and he will be happy as long as he does not lose that bone, confused in his own inadequacies and lack of skill. Then you toss another bone, and this is how you control them. And she was sure that she could very easily manipulate him—"it would be just too easy."

The problem with him is that, for broken men, even tossing a golden bone causes even more misery. He is in a state of no return, completely swallowed by his bitter hatred. He is selfish and simply evil, and yet so fragrantly miserable. When she looked at him last time during the audience, initially she felt triumphant, but later she realized her mistake all along: you can't break what is already so desperately broken. Then she felt how her rage and seek of vengeance just disappeared, leaving her facing reality: how ridiculous her actions were.

It is part of growing up, she told herself. She didn't have experience—neither with politics, nor with miserable low-borns—and she is doing fine now. It is so much better; she can control even seniors to them with ease. She always knows what they want; it is so easy to read them and feed ever so little to give a taste of a bite.

And his rising legend—this is infuriating her to the limits. It is because they do not know him personally, how low he is, how unappealing he is as a human being. He is more like a creature bound to inhabit shadows; it is what he is. You need to heal people like that, pity them, or ignore them; they do not deserve hate, even as she already established.

And yet his record is so distorted. It is exactly like this strike issue: he was in both states at once. He is having this wretch presence and a legend which is nothing like him or his actions—rebellious, clever, obstinate, good for the people... I do not know when I should start to laugh. This would be truly amusing if not for one bitter fact: people start to question the realities around them. Forget low-borns—look at Alex. He was always a bit rebellious; I liked this about him, among other things, but it always was harmless bravado. He eventually came back crawling to me, confessing everything...

But now something shifts. Whenever I mention Marek in nerves, he is defending him. Recently he said something like: "At least when he is fucking up his gear, he is there to face the consequences. He tries, he lives or dies on his upgraded rig. It was on that record I watched." (So you watched him, that's interesting, and you forgot to tell me??) "For me, fifty guys in white suits are placing sensors on my body and handing over a rigid plan of flight. If they screw up, I am dead. I have next to zero flexibility."

You will regret this, she thought at the time... and very quickly. Eventually he caved as always, but why can't he understand? Marek is not his hero; he is not from our universe. You are from a very respectable and influential client family; from Marek's perspective, you are as noble as me—no difference. And he is not hero even for low-borns, this is clear, but apparently not for everybody.

"Why are you not supporting me? Why am I not cool, but Marek is? Later you cry about how cool and brave a person I am, but why are you not doing this from the get-go?" It is your world, and Marek is here to bring his low dirt. The most ridiculous and infuriating thing is when I try to make him aware of this: "They are mocking us. During training sessions, they are playing a video where Marek apparently thinks he is a teacher, and all of a sudden explains the role of each piece of equipment on board... this is sick and revolting." Yet I noticed later he was searching for the video and watching intently, with apparent amusement, with me being present in the same room. You thought I would not notice that??

People start to question things, and this makes no sense. The system works—always worked, it was always this way—and this guy pops out of nowhere showing what, exactly? Leila knew better. Those people do not have brains altogether, she thought. Okay, they do not have the same information as she has; they are manipulated. They just need to do what she did: see the person for what he is, and they will understand in a split second.

Yet  even  for  her  dark  thoughts  clouded   at  times . How is this even possible? How was this motherfucker awarded in the first place? Twice for Valor, according to the Captain he should be imprisoned; he is dangerous and mad, yet he was handed two Valors, constantly promoted, forgiven... How does this stupid system work? Why do those bastards keep forgiving, keep promoting him...? I mean, how do we, why do we have to do that?   

There is something else about him, his audacious look. It happens at times—like only with him, ever. Okay, men are looking at women—especially attractive ones—always in some way, and you just need to learn how to harvest that. But with him, this is something completely different. There are moments when he looks past you, not at you, like you just act as a living obstacle to some distant goal. This is the most uncomfortable look she ever received in her life... Wretch, she thought.


















 




















The ambient noise of the central Sol administration suite was a sterile, synth-softened hum, a stark contrast to the hollow groaning of ore freighters. Inside, high-ranking executives swirled synthetic spirits in heavy glass, reviewing glowing telemetry arrays that detailed the aftermath of the sweeper strike.  "She’s changed," one director remarked, flicking a finger to call up Leila’s recent sector audits. "The volatility is gone. She’s executing policy like a veteran line manager."  "You can thank the low-born for that," another replied, tapping a file labeled Tech-3 Marek. "Nothing matures Sol royalty faster than colliding with a desperate, calcified station rat."  A quiet chuckle passed between them, but it faded as an automated system flag unsealed an old, classified archive. Deep within the server hierarchy sat the original, intercepted communication Marek had tried to send years ago from the Samson-47. Leila had never seen it. High-level officials had seized the message, recognized the brilliant, unconventional validity of Marek's structural calculations, and quietly executed the maneuvers themselves across corporate networks. To keep the asset intact without risking political contamination, they had arranged his prompt exile to deep space—keeping him alive, useful, and safely isolated.  Yet space had a way of leaking. 
He was  reading  recent  reports on  human control 
 Out on the fringe, across encrypted outcast channels, hand-scrambled video fragments of Marek’s sweeper during the strike began to circulate alongside crisp audio files of his late-night technical lectures. To the thousands of workers choking on corporate quotas, Marek was no longer a disgraced technician; he was a living legend—an insider who had mocked the corporation, fought for worker training, and single-handedly outmaneuvered military modules. During mandatory corporate instruction seminars, junior techs secretly played Marek’s technical rants over official audio feeds, smirking as corporate instructors struggled to regain control.  Corporate command faced a nightmare. Quality  of  space  in  sector  was eventually   elevated  to maximum  level as promissed but  efficiency  numbers  droped  and  they  cave   they   bactracked    to  5%   of  original instead of  10%  and  maybe this  will  be not  sustainable  long  term .  They were quietly recalling striker privileges and removing instigators, this  prooved to  be  more  difficult  and  slower  process than  expected   though   whenever  they  push  harder   more voices   promoting  for  public  defender  and   tak  that  under  his watch   it  wouldn't  be  happening   , ok  this  are  niuances  and over time  it  will  smooth  out  ,  but  other  familes  are wathing  and  already   making it  clear   that  they  are not  fully  neutral  over  this   issue  , they  are  questioning   loayllyyty  of the  asset  , they   are  questionig  if  we   fully  control  situation  ,  ok  now delicatly  through   unoficial  channels  ,  but  this is  completely  unprecedented  .  As  result  some  priviledges  are  being   kept  some  undesirable   human  componet  is preserved  longer  than  it  should.  but cracking down on Marek directly would turn a bitter slacker into an immortal martyr. We need to  creat e  situaton  where   MArek   loyality  is  unquestionable  according  to  internal   ruling  he  didn't  participated  win  strike   from  legal  perspective  but  obviously  this is  technical  and  we need to  demonstrate  his  loyality .   "We don't crush him," a corporate PR director declared in an emergency session. They  arived  at  decission  and his  doughter  was  out  of  the  loop  this  time during  next  awarding  parade  "We swallow him. We stage a grand decoration ceremony—a public tour. We parade him alongside the Samson-47 crew, slap a dozen medals on his chest, and show the Belt that his 'legend' is just standard corporate loyalty." This will  be  good   becausy   other  guys  will be  also  promoted  alongside   hand  in  hand  together  unity  and  total   loyality  my  douther  will  resume   the  bugest  office   she  ver  held , other  folsk  will  be   ,  fed  equaly  and  if  this  animal  tourn  out  to  be  domesticated  we  can  show  him  to  the world  in  few  other  places  ,  and  according  to what  I was  given  he is  doing  pretty  well  out  there  ,  good  numbers unexpected  but   very  convinint.  So  this  time  he truly  earned   which   close  critics  in  our own  ranks  whic h are  raising  eye brows   for  quite  some time  over   him  . Everything   starts  to  align  perfecty  .  situation  is  still  volatile  but  we  pull  this  off.  More  over  Novac resumed   command   on serious  ship  alredy and  I  put  Alex in  offecer  to   keep  and  eye   Leilas  boy  is  doing  also  pretty  well  And  I started  to  understand  that  this is serious  and  crossing  him  means  crossing  Leila  .  She is  obviously  furious  about  bing  excluded  but   I can't  help  that  yet  more  over  she   interjectsts  agains  wha t we  proposed   she  wants   different  PR stunt  but  I didn't even  proposed  it   I can't   at  this  point.  Iam  glad  that  seh  hass  ideas  but   we  have  to  cope  on  our  own  . Although  her assasement  of  MArek   bothers  me  what  if  she  is  right .. And  somethings  tells  me  she is  right  on  the  money  here .. 
 






The high-prestige transport cut through the Jovian radiation belts, approaching the frozen, cratered ridge of Callisto at Grid 9-4. On board were Alex and Novac, the preparation  for  decoration   ceremony  were   well underway  and   they  managed  to   fetch  few  prestigious   figures  already  ,  ridiculois  thought  Novac it  is nto  like  I  hate  him ,  I  went  well  over  wha t he  is   ihe is  truly  low  born   without  shread  of  honor  and  my  only  mistake  was  to  think  otherwise   if I  trit  him  from  the get   go  how  he deserves   it  wouldn't  happend  ,  and yet   he is  here  and  yet  hi  will be  rewarded  as   well  deserving  person  working  for this  entire   life   it  shouldn't  be  allowed  . He  cutted  himself  such   thought   and  grivences  horboring  them  is mutinous  and  tretheros  yet  he  couldn't  hep  him,self  how   this   system,  allows  this   for  even  taking  place ,  captain  went  even  that  far to  investigate   "46:"  it  turned  out  that  it  has  long  lasting  and  murky  past there  is  catch  though it can't  be  removed  now   lieke 25%  quota can't  be  ,  IT system  is  so  dirtibuted  and  imense  tha t  you  can't  modify  some procedures  anymore  ,   all  system  would  broke  appart   obviously  it  could be  lifted   but  with   such a  cost   tha t  those  and  other  old  rulings  are  just  that  accepted as  reality  , like  light  oxygen  or  gravity,   this is  endurance trial   for  me as well as  for  humanity .  Still   there was  more then  once  weh  captain  standing   on the deck  of  small  local   transport  barge  ,  tell  himels  humiliation  , and  "I hate  you  ..  but  he was  not  thinking  about  marek this  time  ..  

Initially  they   they  agreed to send  two   crew  mebers  just  fetch  MArek  ,  but  they  thought  better  he  is  after  all  seeing  as  resistance  secret  lider  ,   Alex  told Novac  that   Leila  says  otherwise  he is  truly  defensless  and  simply   pathetic  which  captain  stongly  supported  but  Alex  himself was not  sure .  Captain  said  ok  I will  fetch  hinm   myself .. Alex  didn't  like this  notion  eithe r  after all  he was  order to  secretly  keep  an  eyo  on  captain  too ,  after  all  he was   humiliated  for  so  lon  he  is  from  assocciated  family  surely  he   has  some  grivances  ,  but  it was your  ship  by then  your  responsibility  thought  Alex   and  he  agreed to  keep and  eye  ,  but  now  he  did't  find  any  quic  argument   to   discoruge  captain  in   belivable  way  he  is not  going  it would  be  just  to  much  .  Ok  he said   figure   of  outhority   gave  him  in  shape . He  knew  this is  a  bit  dengerous  given  old  givences  between  Novac  and  captain  but   he  knew  as  well  that  professionalism  will supress  any  emotion   this  one  he was  sure  of. 



The high-prestige transport docked at Grid 9-4 with the heavy, pressurized thud of corporate authority, and Captain Novak stood by the primary airlock, adjusting his tunic. Beside him, a junior officer checked his HUD, looking uncomfortably eager. Novak didn't share the kid’s enthusiasm. As far as he was concerned, fetching Marek for this ridiculous corporate publicity campaign was an insult. He had spent years in command, only to be turned into an administrative chauffeur sent to pick up a disgraced, calcified station rat who should have been in a high-security cell.
The airlock hissed open, venting a cold mist of recycled atmosphere into the outpost bay. There was no honor guard waiting—just a handful of tired local technicians who looked like they wanted to be anywhere else. Novak stepped forward, his voice booming over the station’s general public address system so every soul on Grid 9-4 could hear the official corporate decree.  "Attention all Grid 9-4 personnel," Novak announced, his voice carrying the flat, rehearsed weight of high command. "By direct order of the Sol Executive Board, Tech-3 Marek is officially redeployed to the Sol Media & Fleet Representation Division. You are instructed to assist in his immediate handover."  Novak turned his gaze to Marek, who stood frozen near a diagnostic array, staring at the polished transport hatch like a man looking at a firing squad.  Novak leaned in, a cold, bitter smile touching his lips. "You have four hours to pack your duffel and clear your berth, Marek," Novak lied smoothly. "We are on a strict departure window, and high command wants it to be smooth. Sorry for the inconvenience, guys."  He emphasized this attempt at reconciliation out of the formal part in a way that made it glaringly obvious he wasn't sorry at all, taking a cold, malicious pleasure in squeezing the old rat’s nerves. It was a petty payback for sub-deck G7, for Alternator 5, and for every lie the coward had ever stamped into a corporate log.  The lie worked better than Novak could have anticipated. Marek didn't offer a clever excuse, and he didn't make a stand. Novak watched in sharp satisfaction as raw, pathetic terror washed over the rat's face. But against the odds, Marek simply said that he understood, tapped the backs of the two guys standing next to him, and slowly shuffled back toward his quarters.  Then, a few minutes later, something weird happened.An erratic robot caught everyone’s attention by behaving in an entirely irrational way. It was an uncomfortable moment, and the embarrassed expressions on the station crew's faces told the whole story: absolute, unexpected humiliation as the machine kept falling and standing right next to them in the main hall. What sheer negligence, Novak thought sharply.  They ran toward the robot, but then the Captain heard something that changed the entire equation for him. He could have sworn he heard someone whisper, "That's Marek's robot."  So this wasn't random at all.  With urgency, Novak ordered the junior officer—who had already been scanning the hall and inspecting the building before descending: "Go to Marek's room! I'm going to check something!"  Novak started heading toward the spacesuit room, but the robot intervened again, creating a living barrier and obstinately blocking his access. It held him off for a brief moment until station members finally reasoned with the machine, and it eventually obeyed.  "Junior, with me!" Novak snapped.  It was too late. The outer doors were locked, and through the viewport, Novak could see Marek inside preparing a spacesuit. It should have been so easy: walk in, grab him, job over. Yet this crazy, mad fuck had tricked him again!  It was always the same story: that miserable, unresisting expression. Everyone kept falling under this charm of apparent incapacity, beneath which a deeply insidious, cunning mind was hidden. That's the only reason you're still alive, Marek!  It can't be happening again! What the hell is he doing?!  By the time they grabbed a station crew member to override and unlock the doors, Marek was already gone, out on the ice, heading who knows where.  Pure insanity. Pure insubordination, the Captain thought.  

In a frantic, clumsy blur, he grabbed an emergency suit off the bulkhead rack, dragged it over his clothes, slammed open a secondary environmental hatch, and bolted straight out onto the airless ice of Callisto.  "What the hell is he doing?!" the crew member shouted, lunging toward the hatch.  "The coward is running,"They stormed the locker room, gearing up as quickly as possible, but they didn't know this specific equipment. The local crew helped, but precious time was lost. Novak enabled the suit radio channel—it showed that Marek was online.  "Come back! What are you doing?!" he shouted into the comms. No response.  They finished prepping and started their pursuit. Novak spat over the suit frequency, stepping out onto the terrain while keeping an eye on his wrist-mounted telemetry. Out on the black, jagged rock, Marek was sprinting blindly into the void.  They were after him. Video streams from the scouting drones showed they were closing the distance, but he was still just too far ahead.  "I command you!" the Captain shouted into the line. "Marek! What are you doing?! Where are you going?!"Fuck... fuck, Novak thought. Crazy maniac. What is he doing?!  Novak listened to the open suit telemetry audio—there was no grand manifesto, no rebel defiance, just the ragged, pathetic, wheezing gasps of a forty-eight-year-old station rat’s calcified lungs giving out under the strain. Novak watched the red telemetry dot push far past safety limits, Marek running until his suit’s oxygen warning light flared a violent, blinding red on the tracking board.  They were getting dangerously close to the point of no return—the line where you couldn't safely go any further without risking your own life. In principle, they could send a drone to drop an emergency oxygen canister or send a heavy robot out after him, but would Marek even comply? If he kept going, he was going to die out here, and Captain Novak would be completely screwed once again. Novak grew desperate—increasingly, violently desperate.  And in that very moment, something snapped inside him altogether.  Screw you, Marek. Screw you, Alex. Screw you, Corporation. All those years of training, all those sacrifices, and I’m a nobody because Marek is going to die out here. I’m the failure to be discarded. Why am I even here in the first place? Who promoted this guy? Who gave him a berth? Why do I have to pay the price, you fuckers? You crazy fuckers... You know what? It’s not even Marek—it’s this fucking crazy machine, this system I hate. I truly hate it... Look at what you created for us...  Screw this. Run, Marek, run! Be that freedom fighter! Let them suffer like I suffered! Be their symbol of resistance! You know what? I am already at my limit. My oxygen won't last much longer either. I’ll recall the junior officer, and I’ll allow you to become this grand sacrifice all you low-effort people at the bottom cherish so much! And you know what? I’ll be the very first one to leak the feed—the video of you running across the moon away from two corporate suits! A true symbol of freedom! I hate them more than you do! I despise them more than you do!  Now I understand... Just a few more steps, you crazy motherfucker, and you’ll become a martyr for everybody! And I’ll be the first one to actually worship you! Maybe I needed this. I was humiliated. Maybe I needed this just to finally feel better about myself. How long was my career going to last anyway? Max five years? I’m at my limit, crawling for decades for them... No more of this. Keep moving, Marek! Just a few more steps, you mad fucker! Okay, I need to tell the junior officer that we’re at our safety limit here... Fuck you, Corporate! Fuck you, Families!  And then, over his open comms channel, Novak heard something completely unexpected. It was Alex's voice cutting through the static:  "Adam! Your oxygen!"  Wait... what? What 'Adam'?  Novak understood in a split second. Out on the ice, Marek froze. Marek turned around toward them... He raised his gloved hand... He turned and started walking slowly back toward the base, and they all returned together, just like that!  


This time, it was Captain Novak who couldn't compose himself. They held Marek still, physically grounded, and gave him pills to soften his panic. But the Captain thought he was the one who needed pills. Those thoughts felt so alien, yet he had virtually never felt so alive as in this very moment. Everything was suddenly so clear. He was from a respectable Associate family—"We gave you the solar system on a silver platter back then, and now I'm just dust to be discarded?!" How was it that he couldn't compartmentalize this feeling before? It was always there—always.  This mad fuck wants to die anyway; he will die on a ship or here regardless. But, man, it would be so great if he died right here. "I would deliver my blow, and you wouldn't expect that from your loyal servant, Captain Novak—always swallowing his pride, always loyal." Is this how you feel, Marek? Because it's intoxicating! "If this is the reason, I start to understand why you're doing this—let them rot."  At times, Novak was scared of this thought process and tried to suppress it. He was usually good at that, but somehow it completely overwhelmed him now.  Alex landed, insisting on taking Marek immediately. But the Captain interjected: no, if he came back now, the first thing he'd do is eject himself into the vacuum. He was in too much of a rush when explaining that Marek was being taken. Marek is unstable and needs to process the information, but eventually he will obey—he always does.  Alex thought about it, and Novak noticed the argument made sense even to Alex himself. Alex simply insisted on keeping a guard outside Marek's room. When Marek stabilizes, they'll talk; if he still objects, they'll take him by force. But he's supposed to be performing PR stunts, so it's way better if he caves on his own accord. That was a true point, so Alex stayed outside Marek's cabin watching the feed. The Captain proposed that he watch the feeds from upstairs for redundancy. Let him process—unstable as he is, Marek will reason. He'll reason and jump joyfully around our ship, staring at the hardware within a week. Alex smiled; he liked the idea.  The Captain went upstairs and enabled the feed. He thought about that fucking robot—it was somewhere around here for sure, likely conspiring or remotely controlled, but that was actually good. If Alex eventually leaves his watch, they'll put the junior officer on duty, and after that, someone from the station crew itself. Marek will surely bolt—this mad fucker is obstinate. This will fall on Alex more than himself, and even if it doesn't—fuck it, I've made up my mind!  I understand you, Marek, better than ever now. Fuck them... fuck them!  "Here I will watch, but obviously after a few hours, you know you lose concentration. I'll rush after him, but this time slower—much slower. I'll give him room. Run, mad fucker! Become a warrior for freedom... a part of solar history! My family shaped civilization here, and now I will shape history again! And that robot—keep him, keep him around..." 


Alex was surprised by Marek's runaway, but he had watched the feeds of Marek's protests and knew this pattern all too well. Novak was right: Marek had a tendency toward sudden mood swings, which was dangerous, but Alex actually admired this feature. He remembered from the Navy Academy that guys like that under stress either ran away or charged point-blank.  He himself had experienced this a few times during training flights. It was helpful—it helped you detach and concentrate, where action was everything. He knew that skill was essential, and he knew Marek had already proven he could exit that state and compose himself.  The Captain was right: they had rushed this too much. Just take it step by step—after three days of roaming among the amazing technologies on this ship, he would forget it. It was a cargo ship, but a brand-new one. Something Marek would love at first sight. Just wait this out... wait this out...  He himself grew calmer and more confident, allowing himself to look around the actual establishment. It was okay... okay... 















 
 
  Novak ordered coldly over the comms. "And tie him down if you have to."  Even when Alex dragged the gasping, hysterical rat back into the pressurized airlock, Marek didn't stop. He clawed at the inner seal, his gloved fingers frantically scraping against the metal frame in a desperate, pathetic attempt to break free back into the airless vacuum rather than face the corporate spotlight waiting for him. Novak stood over him, watching the legend of the 'rebel hero' writhe on the deck plates, confirming what he had known all along: Tech-3 Marek was nothing more than a miserable, terrified accident. 

  The Captain watched the breakdown with a cold, terrifying smile. Bitter over his own forced demotion, the old officer pulled Alex aside in the corridor.  "The rat is unstable," the Captain whispered, his eyes glinting with malice. "A suit failure during transit is entirely plausible. Let corporate have their martyr—we’ll give them a dead one to spite high command."  Back in the Asteroid Belt, reviewing the live telemetry, Leila saw through the Captain’s plot instantly. She mapped Marek’s erratic movements, recognized his raw, pathetic terror, and realized what the Captain was setting up.  Overriding central command with immediate executive authority, Leila cut the comms link.  "Evacuate the scientific crew immediately," she ordered her officers. "Leave the base. Leave the equipment. Leave him alone."  The silence of Grid 9-4 was absolute.  Marek sat in his quarters, promoted on paper to station manager of an empty relay hub. The corporate PR tour had moved on, forced to invent another narrative, leaving him stranded on the physical edge of the solar system.  There was a mountain of work—miles of magnetic guide-rails to align, thousands of sensors to calibrate, and endless radiation data to process. But Marek had done this his whole life. 




Yet, as she looked at Alex—and at the rising tide of unrest across the Belt—an existential dread settled in her chest. Marek was a pathetic, broken creature, yet his mere existence was tearing apart the moral authority of the elite hierarchy she had been born to rule. 





When the scale of the void overwhelmed him and his mind froze in panic, his muscle memory simply kicked in. His hands moved over the diagnostics automatically.  Beside him stood the reconstructed Utility-4 robot. Marek had officially promoted the machine to overseer, granting it autonomous operational clearance. The robot spent its days out on the ice, methodically laying heavy steel track, while Marek stayed in the shack, managing long-range sensors and heavy communications.  Whenever a deep-space cargo freighter occasionally docked to dump data buffers, Marek stepped out onto the bay. He liked the visitors. They talked incessantly about themselves, their families, and their home docks. Before anyone could stay long enough to become annoying, their departure window opened, leaving Marek with nothing but pleasant, fading memories.  One afternoon, Marek pulled on his suit and walked out onto the exposed vacuum ridge to inspect Sensor K4.  The solar system stretched out before him—a vast, indifferent sea of cold stars and looming gas giants. He reached out, his gloved fingers wrapping around the frozen metal housing of the sensor.  Standing alone in the silent, airless dark, Marek leaned his helmet against the frame and whispered softly into his mic:"I'm having difficulty breathing."  The sensor, unthinking and indifferent, offered no reply. The indicator light simply blinked a steady, peaceful green as Marek turned back toward his shack, remaining—by pure accident and desperate self-preservation—just a solitary worker at the edge of the world.  



Alex was leaning over a table covered with charts and sheets, where two whiteboards also stood. Alex couldn't resist quite exotic stuff: colorful plots with handwritten notes and actual math formulas. This was nothing like what he remembered from scientist in prototype facility when he was an experimental pilot—those were clean desks and pristine simulations. He asked station mebers, but he already knew the answer: this was mere black magic, tinkering Marek native cave.

Alex was tempted. That's it. I can take a few pictures and figure out with an assistant later what this guy is all about, what makes him different...

This spark of excitement was suppressed very quickly, though. he thought  better. I am not that same person I was back then with Trivi, or even during experimental flights. Leila is right: I am noble. I aced the actual Fleet Navy Academy, top 20 in my graduating year. I distinguished myself as a test pilot. I have a few valors already. I am here not out of joy; I am on duty, logging hours as an officer on the deck—a legal requirement to assume second-in-command one day. I may not like that, but I can leverage my girlfriend. I am destined to become a captain one day, and possibly an important political figure. Marek does not belong to this world. This table does not belong to this world. This mission consists of maybe 40–50 consecutive phases; now Marek is one of them. He counts, but only temporarily. If he truly ran away, this would seep into encrypted channels and cause a stir of discontent. But even if they revolted here or there, this time we would respond with no mercy. That strike a few years back was totally random, organic noise, but now we gather resources to deal with stuff like that. Even my family prepared emergency measures—we would crush them in days. Houston wants to avoid that scenario; they would pay an immense price for the fallout, but nothing would change. And even if I discover that he is doing something extraordinary and learn the 'truth' about him, it is not like it has any lasting impact. He would not become noble under any circumstances—the deal is locked completely for people like him. Sure, it happens that low-born people, successful on their own accord and having property and economic weight, are able to secure marriage with associate families, basically lifting themselves up, but it takes time—sometimes generations—to solidify. This is a slow ascent. And while there are plenty of showmen here or there, their theater is meaningless. Leila was right all along. Good for him, but it is not my business. Technology is just a tool to an end."

He realized how much less he watches those secure channels. It is no longer entertaining as it used to be even one or two years ago. He is a few steps from becoming second-in-command... that is what matters now. And Leila supports him in that very strongly recently, like never before.     

Alex had calmed down; the situation was under control again. Then the junior shift came on duty. Marek still slept under the heavy influence of the sedatives they had given him. Soon, they assigned someone from the station crew to take over the door watch. Alex briefly considered calling in extra reinforcements, but he quickly dismissed the thought—no, that wouldn't cut it here. There was already far too much hassle over Marek, and bringing in heavy security would only cause a massive stir on the ship. They didn't need a public circus on Grid 9-4. The Captain nodded in silent agreement. Alex himself took something for a quick nap, laying down alongside the junior officer while Novak remained above, watching the surveillance monitors.  Predictably, the assigned station member grew bored within the hour. After all, the local crew had lived and worked alongside Marek every day for over two years; to them, guarding the old station rat like a high-risk prisoner was completely ridiculous. Captain Novak was certain it would end up this way.  Then the robot appeared.  The machine methodically unlatched the door to Marek's cabin. As it turned out, Marek hadn't been sleeping at all.  I knew it, you mad fuck... I knew it, Captain Novak thought, staring intently at the glowing display.  He watched the feed as Marek slunk out of his berth. Where was he going? To the suit room—great. I'll give him a few minutes, then I'll raise the alarm, Novak reasoned. It just so happens that I was a bit slow on the trigger... after all, the observation room was locked from the outside. I could easily be clumsy, couldn't I?  He watched the monitor intently as Marek began suiting himself up. Novak let out a bitter, silent laugh as he saw Marek deliberately strap on a nearly depleted oxygen bottle.  "I guess you aren't running for any records this time," Novak whispered to the screen. "How disappointing, you mad fuck..."  Okay, you've got your time, Novak thought. He pushed himself up from his chair and started to rise slowly... very, very slowly.


The Captain was on the comms channel—silent, but vigilant. And once again, something unexpected happened that hit him like a hammer.  "Marek, are you there in the channel?" somebody asked.  "Yes," Marek replied.  "You wouldn't believe this! There's a high-priority message from the Belt: you stay on the moon! The outpost at L23 is being promoted to a full station, and you are taking over as manager! You aren't going with them at all..."  The Captain didn't know whether Marek could or couldn't believe it. But for Novak, it was a heavy, devastating blow. Marek had disobeyed again—he dared to defy a direct order—and he was penalized with another promotion!  This was something the Captain knew he would be brooding over for a long, long time...


They stayed in the vicinity of Grid 9-4 for a few days to assist with Marek's initial transport and equipment transfer out to the new L23 site.  Marek was in a remarkably good mood throughout the process, casually offering a soft apology for his earlier behavior. He excused the entire scene by explaining that the raw, airless beauty of the moon had simply overwhelmed him, and he had wanted to pay a quiet, last personal tribute to the ice before leaving—or some similar, poetic nonsense.  Alex laughed out loud at the explanation, clearly amused by the station rat's audacity. Captain Novak, however, did not laugh at all. He stood by in stony silence, his jaw tight as he watched Marek handle the transfer paperwork with the effortless calm of a man who had outmaneuvered them all yet again.  When the time came, they exchanged formal farewells on the dock, wishing each other well for the journey ahead. And just like that, the high-prestige transport uncoupled its docking clamps and departed into the dark, leaving Captain Novak trapped in a state of severe, suffocating tension.  As the Jovian moon shrank into the viewport, Novak sat alone in his quarters, staring blankly at the empty deck plates. He was left facing a bitter, fractured puzzle of his own mind—a ruin of crushed pride, corporate hypocrisy, and unpunished insubordination—which he was now forced to painfully reassemble all by himself. 



The executive was deeply moved, watching the video on a continuous loop—the footage showing Marek running away point-blank from two corporate suits on the surface of a hostile, freezing celestial body.  How could it have come to that? The uncomfortable truth was that they had actually lost control over the asset. If Marek hadn't returned of his own accord, this video would have surely leaked eventually to encrypted channels, creating an eternal low-born hero. They were so terrifyingly close to the total devastation of the Houston name and prestige—it was a dreadful thought.  Leila, my daughter... you warned us.  He felt a sudden surge of fatherly pride over how she had completely turned the decision of the family board. He had listened to Leila's suggestions and agreed to her plan, even though it was the biggest political risk he had ever faced. It was so unexpected to take a gamble over this wild animal. The board members—those power-hungry mongers—were still furious, but even they eventually saw reason. They kept the asset, promoted him, and actually leveraged their family's presence to avert a disaster.  They prevented a catastrophic crisis, but above all, he had won his daughter back. If he hadn't caved to her wishes, it would have been all over for their faction—at least for a very long time.  Still, he couldn't fully comprehend how she was able to read this guy so well. Marek was sprinting point-blank into a random, airless void—so erratic, so completely unpredictable. Yet Leila saw right through his fundamental smallness. She explained how utterly incapable he was of lifting any real responsibility whatsoever. He couldn't be a hero of the people; the weight was obviously just too heavy for a creature like him. Nor could he ever be a star representing their family. At his core, he was just a small, unpredictable, and useless station rat—not a true danger, so long as you don't force him into becoming one.  You simply allow biology to fight our war. You let the universe act.  She had grown so different, so remarkably mature, so deep. A great girl... his girl.  Marek had lived in the shadows and rags his whole life, so this was the natural outcome. He would instinctively reject what was given to him simply because he was incapable of bearing responsibility. It was so obvious from the start—why couldn't the rest of command see that? He just needed to stay where he belonged.  The PR campaign would still happen, but it would be executed strictly in Leila’s fashion. It was yet another brilliant, ruthless maneuver on her accord—so obvious, and so brutally effective.  


With a sudden, furious burst of energy, Marek set to work turning the bleak, isolated L23 outpost into a full-blown scientific research base from scratch. He threw himself into the project with manic intensity, determined to transform the empty ridge into something real. For weeks on end, he worked almost completely alone. Once in a blue moon, a corporate transport would dock briefly to drop off crates of heavy hardware or a couple of silent line technicians who stayed just long enough to bolt down a central server rack before disappearing back into the void, leaving Marek behind with only the humming machinery.  The rest of the empire was just him and the machines.  His primary operational headache was the rogue, reconstructed Utility-4 robot he had put in charge of the rail-laying queue. The machine was obstinate, running on its bizarre, lingering hardware-worshipping logic, and constantly managed to get on Marek’s last nerve. It would align track girders with obsessive, millimetric perfection, pausing to chitter strange binary litanies to the cold steel before moving forward. Marek constantly caught himself yelling into his suit mic, cursing at the toaster to speed up or stop hoarding spare junction bolts.  Leaving the track physical labor to the robot, Marek turned his complete, fixated focus onto the sensor array. He mapped wide-band RF frequencies, fine-tuned the K4 and JK-7 signal relays, and attempted to build a unified data-acquisition model for the entire sector.  The sheer volume of work was overwhelming. There were days when the mathematical complexity of the signal interference and structural logistics hit him like a concrete wall. Standing before his empty whiteboard, staring at equations that refused to balance, Marek would be hit by a wave of hollow dread, feeling that he simply didn't possess enough raw mental capacity to conceptualize a system of this scale.  Yet, in those exact moments of intellectual paralysis, a strange phenomenon occurred: his decades of hard, unglamorous experience kicked in. Even when his brain froze, his body didn't. A deep muscle memory—developed over twenty-five years of stamping diagnostic buttons, stripping copper leads, and surviving failing hulls—took over. His hands would move on pure autopilot, effortlessly wiring terminal blocks, balancing impedance loads, and stripping damaged coax cables without his conscious mind even tracking the steps. The physical reflexes of a veteran station rat carried him straight through the mental fog.  In his rare hours of off-shift quiet, Marek discovered a new hobby: tuning the deep-space array to a rogue, unofficial sub-space radio channel.  The funny thing was the demographic. Out here in the Jovian perimeter, every single worker on the grid was a corporate employee on a ridiculously high payroll—loyal, vetted, and thoroughly compliant on paper. Yet, the radio hosts spent every broadcast talking absolute, unfiltered shit about corporate command, mocking the suits, tearing apart official policy, and laughing at executive announcements. Sitting in his dim shack with a bulb of lukewarm tea, Marek would laugh out loud into the empty room. The station became his ultimate safety valve, dissolving the lingering stress of his exile.  Then came the night he tuned in mid-broadcast to hear a segment specifically about him.  The host was recounting the legend of "Tech-3 Marek"—describing his background, the Samson-47 disaster, and the sweeper strike. Marek listened with a crooked grin. They blew the myth way out of proportion, of course, but as they picked apart his technical habits, his cynicism, and his awkward, solitary nature, Marek realized with a quiet shock that, minus a few dramatic exaggerations, they had actually gotten him just right.

He returned to the uncomfortable memory of his "escape". It was no rebellious last stand. He simply felt the Belt was watching him, expecting something—some stupid, freaking stunt out of him. So he just delivered, naturally, a childish prank, pretending discontent. In truth, he had already started processing his new deployment while running away. It was just how he was: an immature way of demonstrating dissatisfaction. He knew the whole time throughout his "escape" that he would end up going back, crawling at corporate feet.  And yet, when he heard what Alex said over the comms, he understood it was a final warning for him—a point of no return. Choose, Marek: you're still okay here, but a few steps forward and there will be no reconciliation...  At that very moment, he was totally 50/50. He wanted to come back, but this was his stunt for everybody in the Belt, for all the low-born watching... And then something struck him: the Captain. He almost felt a sudden change in Novak... You're expecting me to go further, aren't you? For you, everything is serious—there's no rebelling for rebelling's sake. Every minute counts for you and people like you; there are no accidents. Fuck you, he thought. And he came back to the base.  The second time, he just wanted to be alone. He wanted to look one last time at the station from the outside—not for them, not for the low-born, but for himself. That was the reason he took the almost empty bottle: just to go outside, look at the station, go back, wake up Alex, and stand up for the PR stunt. He had already processed it, and he knew Leila would be there, too... But he wanted to look one last time, truly alone, giving his goodbye. When he gave that explanation later, it wasn't totally out of malice, mockery, or avoiding responsibility. I am here for myself, after all, not for you...  Some other day, he was out placing a sensor. More than a year had passed in this new assignment, and the facility looked more like a solid base than a mere post. He knew corporate was preparing something... He grew melancholic: did it mean they were going to reshuffle him one more time?  He looked at the nearby K4 sensor. He took it in his hand, trying to squeeze it with all his might, but the armored casing didn't yield much.  "K4, you're my favorite sensor, do you know that?" he muttered into his mic. "You're so smart. You know all about methane and stuff. Clever, really. Tell me then... where are the opportunities for all the low-born? Who took them away, can you tell?"  He paused, staring at the lens. "I guess as long as we're not talking methane, ammonia, and stuff, you don't care, do you? I also have no idea. I'm no different."  He turned his gaze out toward the silent horizon. "But you know what? I'm having difficulty breathing recently. Did you know that?"  And indeed, he was having difficulty. Now it was a bit better, but there were times when he wasn't sure if he would wake up the next day. It happened in the evenings when he was lying down after a full day's work, especially when lying flat on his back. He had started exercising more and it was improving, but for how long, really?  Initially, he thought it had to be attributed to his wanderings—when he forgot once in a while about his oxygen reserves and barely made it back—and he knew that was the most common cause of death among those who spent more than a few years in deep space. But now he was certain he was truly having some lung problem. It wasn't just a hoax to discriminate against him without merit, apparently...  For now, it was okay, but eventually, he would need to do something about it. 

